[exporter/sumologic]: deprecate options which are going to be removed (#23337)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: exporter/sumologicexporter/README.md

[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Migration to new architecture

> **This exporter is subject of major changes now.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This exporter is undergoing major changes right now.**
```

> For some time we have been developing [new Sumo Logic exporter](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/main/pkg/exporter/sumologicexporter#sumo-logic-exporter) and now we are in progress of moving it into this repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some time we have been developing the [new Sumo Logic exporter](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/main/pkg/exporter/sumologicexporter#sumo-logic-exporter) and now we are in the process of moving it into this repository.
```

> The following options are deprecated and they won't exist in new version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following options are deprecated and they will not exist in new version:
```

- `metric_format: {carbon2, graphite}`
- `metadata_attributes: [<regex>]`
- `graphite_template: <template>`
- `source_category: <template>`
- `source_name: <template>`

> - `source_host: <template>`

Reviewer: We're going to drop some other settings from the distro exporter very soon as well:

- `clear_logs_timestamp`
- `routing_atttribute_to_drop`
- `json_logs.add_timestamp`
- `json_logs.flatten_body`

Do you think we should mention them here as well, even though we haven't dropped them yet in the fork?

Author: I wouldn't mention them here, as they never existed in this repository code

After the new exporter will be moved to this repository:

- `carbon2` and `graphite` are going to be no longer supported and `prometheus` or `otlp` format should be used

> - all resource level attributes are going to be treated as `metadata_attributes`. You can use [Group by Attributes processor](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/main/pkg/processor/groupbyattrsprocessor/) to move attributes from record level to resource level. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
- all resource level attributes are going to be treated as `metadata_attributes`. You can use [Group by Attributes processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/groupbyattrsprocessor) to move attributes from record level to resource level. For example:
```

  ```yaml
  # before switch to new collector
  exporters:
    sumologic:
      metadata_attribute:
        - my_attribute
  # after switch to new collector
  processors:
    groupbyattrs:
      keys:
        - my_attribute
  ```

> - Source templates (`source_category`, `source_name` and `source_host`) are going to be removed from the exporter and sources may be set using `_sourceCategory`, `sourceName` or `_sourceHost` resource attributes. We recommend to use [Transform Processor](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/main/pkg/processor/transformprocessor/). For example:

Author: ```suggestion
- Source templates (`source_category`, `source_name` and `source_host`) are going to be removed from the exporter and sources may be set using `_sourceCategory`, `sourceName` or `_sourceHost` resource attributes. We recommend to use [Transform Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/transformprocessor/). For example:
```

    # List of regexes for attributes which should be send as metadata
    # default = []
    #

>     # This opion is deprecated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # This option is deprecated:
```

    #
    # Please regfer to Source temmplates for formatting explanation:
    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#source-templates
    #

>     # This opion is deprecated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # This option is deprecated:
```

    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#migration-to-new-architecture
    graphite_template: <template>

    # Desired source category. Useful if you want to override the source category configured for the source.
    #
    # Please regfer to Source temmplates for formatting explanation:
    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#source-templates
    #

>     # This opion is deprecated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # This option is deprecated:
```

    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#migration-to-new-architecture
    source_category: <template>

    # Desired source name. Useful if you want to override the source name configured for the source.
    #
    # Please regfer to Source temmplates for formatting explanation:
    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#source-templates
    #

>     # This opion is deprecated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # This option is deprecated:
```

    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#migration-to-new-architecture
    source_name: <template>

    # Desired source host. Useful if you want to override the source hosy configured for the source.
    #
    # Please regfer to Source temmplates for formatting explanation:
    # https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/sumologicexporter#source-templates
    #

>     # This opion is deprecated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # This option is deprecated:
```
